The health of your teeth depends
in large part on the health
of your gums.
In fact, the leading cause of
tooth loss is gingivitis,
which means inflammation of the gums.
It begins when plaque
a sticky substance made up of bacteria,
saliva, and food particles
wedges between your gums and teeth.
This triggers a process of inflammation
in the gums around the teeth
that causes the gums to slowly erode.
Over time, the inflammation can cause
deep pockets to form between the
teeth and gums
and loss of the bone that
holds the teeth in place.
This is known as periodontitis.
Eventually, the teeth
may become loose and fall out.
Gum disease can also
contribute to cavities.
Bacteria can enter a crevice
between the gum and tooth
and eat its way into the tooth.
If the cavity goes deep enough,
it can affect the pulp
at the center of the tooth.
The pulp has nerves that can
carry the pain all the way
into jaw bone,
causing excruciating pain.